hi everyone um welcome back today I
thought I'd show you my favorite plants
well one of my favorites I think I think
for every category there is a favorite
so I have multiples
these are lithops Livingstone's they're
fantastic fantastic plants for people
that that really don't like to water or
don't have the time to water these ones
actually you usually will kill by
watering too much always you can
actually never really kill these by not
watering them there's a trick to growing
them
I have lost a few in my in my practicing
but I think I've gotten it down to a
science and now that I know what I'm
supposed to do is it's very very easy to
keep these supposedly with these guys
you if you I don't know that they're
what are the words I'm trying to find
there if you don't water them for a few
years they'll be okay that's kind of
what I'm when I'm getting at these
plants in particular over the summer
time they're not really growing they're
not doing anything you water them sort
of like a regular house plant you want
to let them dry down between waterings
each one of these is actually one leaf
the camera is not really zooming in
they're very good let me see if I can
find a bigger one there these here are
the leaves they're really really thick
they really hold the moisture which
tells us that that they really don't
need a lot of water they hold on to it
and if you water too much these little
guys don't have a little valve inside
that tells it I've got too much stop
taking up the water so what happens if
you water it too much it keeps pulling
it in it gets bigger and bigger and
bigger and fatter and until it finally
explodes so over watering is the biggest
problem what you will do in about
October
they they will look like well I guess
they don't really look like they're
doing anything in October you stop
watering them altogether in October it
might be different through different
areas of the world in the winter months
stop watering and they will start
splitting open this one had a flower
I'll show you in another video another
flower as they happen as you can see
there there's just starting little
babies it's splitting apart generally
this is together so the little baby will
will come through the center and
eventually it will look like this one
the side leaves will shrivel up that is
where they're going to get the moisture
from they're going to get the moisture
from these spare leaves here so these
will completely dry up to hard little
husks and then once once these dry up
usually in the late spring that's when
you could start watering them again so
don't don't water them a drop until
until they they have grown a new set of
leaves and the the old set of leaves
have dried up as you can see there's
there's a little baby leaves starting to
grow here it's not really focusing very
well at garden centers you'll probably
know or notice that that they'll they'll
still water them and you'll start
getting babies coming out and the leaves
are still looking really great and and
you think that it's a healthy plant but
really if you see this this sort of
thing happening with the ones that
you're purchasing you'll want to stop
watering leave it until these old leaves
shrivel up again they get quite hard and
and all the moisture that's in those
leaves is going to the new little baby
plant they're a fascinating plant I
think I think I used to water them too
much I thought that I wasn't watering
them enough but they used to they used
to always turn into a mush ball so that
that really explains it this one here
it's in the same family they call this
one a split rock
it's a slightly bigger variety I don't
know if you can see between there these
are the new leaves the old ones are
almost dried up so I can almost start
watering this one this one would be
easier to see the new leaves as they
start because it's it's completely open
between them it's a pretty fascinating
plant so if you're one of those people
that has a nice a nice really really
bright window as bright as you can get
it or a nice place outside for the
summer
I really recommend these they're they're
a lot of fun they don't do a lot they
don't grow like crazy they don't get ten
feet tall they just stay very very small
every year you'll get a new set of
leaves and the old leaves will will will
shrivel up so it kind of just stays the
same but I the fun thing about these is
you can turn them into a little living
rock garden I will make a video in time
these ones are relatively new and I've
been getting used to the growing process
but since I've mastered the growing
process I think I think I'd like to take
a larger sized pot shallow a shallow pot
and I'm going to have an individually
product because they all seem to do
their own thing in their own time so
when one needs watering another might
not so if you have them individually
potted plunged into a little landscape
they can really really make a neat
effect so when I when I make that pot up
I will bring you along and we'll see
what the roots look like how they grow
and and we'll learn this together anyway
thanks for watching I hope you enjoy
these little guys as much as I do